most eight-year-olds can tell you that
once water boils it turns into steam and
because hot air rises that steam
aggressively tries to escape into the
atmosphere as far away from the water
bubbling beneath it as possible now that
can make for quite an unpleasant
experience when you open the lid of a
kettle and gets slammed in the face by a
waft of hot steam but some of that steam
also turns back into hot water and
sticks underneath the kettles lid now
you can see what happens to this perspex
eat when it interferes with a steaming
hot water droplets quickly form and gets
stuck on the underside of the plastic as
the steam rises it gets further and
further away from the heat source
causing it to cool down the interference
of the lid combined with the reduction
in retained energy as it calls forces
the steam to change its state back to
water and because water has both
adhesive and cohesive properties it
forms big sticky droplets on the
underside of the plastic and while those
sticky droplets may have cooled down
versus the steam they're still really
really hot so when your kettle lid opens
really quickly two things can happen
firstly some of those water droplets can
flick up with the lid and splash
whatever or whoever gets in their way
and secondly if you're not careful a
great wallop of steam comes up and hits
you in the face now I don't know about
you but I use my kettle every single day
so I want the experience to be as
pleasant and pain-free as possible and
it's these kinds of everyday kitchen
experiences that the design team at Sage
go to bed each night thinking about and
trying to improve so sage invented the
world's first food safe soft opening
careful lid as you can see here there's
quite a lot of condensation built up on
the underside of this lid and lots of
steam waiting to escape but unlike a lot
of other kettles when I press the sage
kettle lid it opens softly and elegantly
keeping those nasty hot water droplets
where they belong
staggering the release of steam it just
feels so much nicer to press to the sage
soft open kettles gently does it